# NULS2.0 SDK-Provider

**NULS has customized NULS2.0 wallet for partner docking with the built-in `NULS-SDK-Provider` module. NULS-SDK functions are encapsulated in the module, of which the interface are accessed with the HTTP protocol through `JSON-RPC` or `Restful`.**

[Test Wallet Download](http://nuls-usa-west.oss-us-west-1.aliyuncs.com/beta3/NULS_Wallet_linux64_beta3_sdk_provider.tar.gz)

[NULS-SDK-Provider Offline Operating Tool Download](http://nuls-usa-west.oss-us-west-1.aliyuncs.com/beta3/nuls-sdk-provider-offline.tar.gz)

## Configuration

The default port of `NULS-SDK-Provider` module is 18004, which can be modified in the file nuls.ncf as follows:

```
[nuls-sdk-provider]
# httpServer port 
server_port=18004
```

## Explanation

Here are a few explanations for you to get a better understanding of NULS2.0's business and interface returns.

#### Online and offline

`NULS-SDK-Provider` module provides several on-line and off-line interfaces.

Online interfaces: The wallet must run properly, be able to connect to other nodes in the network, and be able to synchronize blocks and broadcast data normally. It is best to have synchronized to the latest block before invoking the online interface. The data generated by the interface is stored in the wallet: create accounts, change passwords, transfer, get block header, just to name a few.

Offline interfaces: NULS2.0 provides a [NULS-SDK-Provider Offline Operating Tool](http://nuls-usa-west.oss-us-west-1.aliyuncs.com/beta3/nuls-sdk-provider-offline.tar.gz). It can run independently on an offline server, with no need to install a wallet. Users can call offline interfaces with relevant parameters passed in to get the return data, which will not be stored in the wallet, such as, off-line account creation, off-line transfer transaction assembling, off-line signing, etc.

#### Field Description

**chainId:**

NULS2.0 supports multi-chain parallel and cross-chain transfers. Each chain is distinguished by chain ID. The chain ID of NULS MainNet is 1, and that of NULS TestNet is 2.

**Chain Assets:**

Besides the default asset, NULS2.0 supports the dynamic addition of assets to each chain according to business needs. Each asset in each chain is distinguished by a composit primary key of the chain ID and the asset ID. For example, NULS, the default asset of NULS MainNet, has the chainId = 1 and assetId = 1.

**Transaction Type:**

NULS2.0 has multiple transactions with different functions by default. When calling the interface to query transaction details, different transaction types can be distinguished by the type field. The following are the enum values of the transaction type (txType):

```
int COIN_BASE = 1;						//coinBase reward
int TRANSFER = 2;						//transfer
int ACCOUNT_ALIAS = 3;					//set account alias
int REGISTER_AGENT = 4;					//register consensus node
int DEPOSIT = 5;						//stake to join consensus
int CANCEL_DEPOSIT = 6;					//cancel staking
int YELLOW_PUNISH = 7;					//yellow card punishment
int RED_PUNISH = 8;						//red card punishment
int STOP_AGENT = 9;						//unregister consensus node
int CROSS_CHAIN = 10;					//cross-chain transfer
int REGISTER_CHAIN_AND_ASSET = 11;		//register chain
int DESTROY_CHAIN_AND_ASSET = 12;		//destroy chain
int ADD_ASSET_TO_CHAIN = 13;			//add asset to chain
int REMOVE_ASSET_FROM_CHAIN = 14;		//remove asset from chain
int CREATE_CONTRACT = 15;				//create contract
int CALL_CONTRACT = 16;					//call contract
int DELETE_CONTRACT = 17;				//delete contract
int CONTRACT_TRANSFER = 18;				//contract transfer
int CONTRACT_RETURN_GAS = 19;			//contract for returning fee
int CONTRACT_CREATE_AGENT = 20;			//contract for registering consensus node
int CONTRACT_DEPOSIT = 21;				//contract for staking to join consensus
int CONTRACT_CANCEL_DEPOSIT = 22;		//contract for canceling staking
int CONTRACT_STOP_AGENT = 23;			//contract for unregistering consensus node
int VERIFIER_CHANGE = 24;				// validator change
```

**from and to in transaction：**

Take the transfer transaction as an example: tx.type = 2

From is the sender of the transfer transaction. Each from is regarded as the amount of assets transferred by a sender. The nonce changes after each transfer and the latest nonce can be obtained by calling the interface: get account balance.

To is the receiver of the transfer transaction. Each to is considered as the amount of assets that the recipient receives, and lockTime is the lock-in time. When the lockTime is greater than 0, it means that the asset can be usable only if the actual time exceeds this value; when lockTime = -1, it means that the asset is locked permanently and can be unlocked with special transactions, such as joining staking and canceling staking.

Transaction fees = sum of main assets of this chain in from - sum of main assets of this chain in to


## Access Mode

- **`JSON-RPC`**

Add request header: 
    Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8
     HttpMethod: POST
     URL: http://${ip}:${port}/jsonrpc 

For example: http://127.0.1:18004/jsonrpc

Request Format:

    ```json

    {
        "jsonrpc":"2.0",
        "method":"methodCMD", //interface name
        "params":[],  //all parameters of the interface passed in an array, and the order of parameters can not be changed. If the parameters are not required, you should also fill in null.
        "id":1234
    }
    ```

- **`RESTFUL`**

Add request header:

    Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8

For the rest, please refer to [RESTFUL API Documentation](https://github.com/nuls-io/nuls-v2/blob/master/module/nuls-api/documents/nuls-api_Postman_RESTFUL.json)


## API Documentation

We provide two types of API, namely `JSON-RPC` and `Restful`. Users can choose different docking methods according to their needs. Please see the interface documentation below for details:

[JSON-RPC API Documentation](https://github.com/nuls-io/nuls-v2/blob/master/module/nuls-api/documents/nuls-api_JSONRPC.md)

[RESTFUL API Documentation](https://github.com/nuls-io/nuls-v2/blob/master/module/nuls-api/documents/nuls-api_Postman_RESTFUL.json)

_ **FYI:** The official tool NULS-SDK-4J is available now, through which partners using JAVA can dock `NULS-SDK-Provider` module, see: [NULS-SDK-4J Instructions](https://github.com/nuls-io/nuls-v2-sdk4j/blob/master/README.md)

## API Debugging

We provide the import files of (`JSON-RPC` and `RESTFUL`) for `Postman` interface debug tool. Users can debug interfaces with the corresponding file imported.

[JSON-PRC API Debugging-POSTMAN Import File](https://github.com/nuls-io/nuls-v2/blob/master/module/nuls-api/documents/nuls-api_Postman_JSONRPC.json)

[RESTFUL API Debugging-POSTMAN Import File](https://github.com/nuls-io/nuls-v2/blob/master/module/nuls-api/documents/nuls-api_Postman_RESTFUL.json)