## Smart Contract Fees

### 1. How to charge for the rules of smart contract fees? How much does the interface caller pay? Who received these fees?

In the main chain, there are three more types of transactions, `Create Smart Contracts`, `Invoke Smart Contracts`, `Delete Smart Contracts`.

The difference between the three transactions and other transactions such as `transfer` lies in the execution of one smart contract, so the execution of smart contracts is also one of the charging standards.

* Smart contract charging calculation method

```java
Public static final int COMPARISON = 1;//Compare bytecode
Public static final int CONSTANT = 1;//simple numeric type bytecode
Public static final int LDC = 1; / / numeric constant, string constant (length * LDC)
Public static final int CONTROL = 5;//control bytecode
Public static final int TABLESWITCH = 2; // switch bytecode (size * TABLESWITCH)
Public static final int LOOKUPSWITCH = 2; // switch bytecode (size * LOOKUPSWITCH)
Public static final int CONVERSION = 1;//Value conversion
Public static final int EXTENDED = 1;//null
Public static final int MULTIANEWARRAY = 1;//Multidimensional array (size * MULTIANEWARRAY)
Public static final int LOAD = 1; / / send local variables to the top of the stack
Public static final int ARRAYLOAD = 5;//Send an item of the array to the top of the stack
Public static final int MATH = 1;//Mathematical operations and shift operations
Public static final int REFERENCE = 10;//object related operations
Public static final int NEWARRAY = 1;//One-dimensional array (size * NEWARRAY)
Public static final int STACK = 2; / / stack operation
Public static final int STORE = 1;//Save the value of the top of the stack to a local variable
Public static final int ARRAYSTORE = 5; / / store the value of the stack item into the array
Public static final int TRANSFER = 1000;//transfer transaction

```
	
* One smart contract total handling fee

The total handling fee for a contract transaction consists of three parts
- The first part is the transaction fee generated by the transaction size, calculated according to the byte size -> 0.001NULS/KB, which is 0.001 NULS per 1000 bytes, the transaction size is less than 1000 bytes, and the charge is 0.001 NULS.

- The second part is the GAS*Price consumed by the contract execution. Price is the unit price, which means how much Na is for each Gas, Na is the smallest unit of NULS, 1Nuls is 100 million Na.
> For example, if a contract execution consumes 20,000Gas and the set price is 30Na/Gas, then the Na consumed this time is `20000 * 30 = 600000`, which is 0.006NULS

- The third part is that the GasLimit set by the caller is not consumed by the current contract execution, and the remaining Gas will be returned by the contract GAS return transaction.
> For example, the last chestnut, the GasLimit set for the contract is 30000Gas, and the contract execution consumes 20,000Gas, then the remaining 10000Gas, the 10000Gas converted to Na is `10000 * 30 = 300000`, which is 0.003NULS, then this 0.003NULS will return the contract caller in the contract GAS return transaction of the current packaged block

* How much does the contract caller pay?

In the contract transaction, the contract caller pays the first, second and third parts. In fact, the contract caller pays the first and second parts, because the third part will be returned to the contract call in the contract GAS return transaction of the current packaged block. By

* Who received these fees?

The block packer receives the first and second part of the fee, and the contract caller receives the third part of the fee.